README.adoc, before:

= HiveMQ AWS CloudWatch Plugin


== Purpose

This Plugin allows to report HiveMQ metrics to AWS CloudWatch.

It is possible to send every HiveMQ metric to CloudWatch. Every metric which should be reported
must be configured explicitly to reduce the costs, since CloudWatch can be expensive if you
publish too much (unnecessary) data.



[CAUTION]
.AWS Cloudwatch costs
====
AWS Cloudwatch metrics can be *very* expensive. So please make sure you really want to report the specified metrics.
You can find the full AWS pricing http://https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[here].

At the time of writing the AWS prices are the following:

* `$0.50` per custom metric
* `$0.01` per 1000 _GetMetricStatistics_, _ListMetrics_, or _PutMetricData_ requests

====


== Configuration

There are two configuration files needed for the plugin in order to operate:

. `cloudwatch_config.properties`: This config file is used for general configuration, like the publishing interval
. `cloudwatch_metrics.properties`: This config file specifies all metrics which should be reported to CloudWatch


=== cloudwatch_config.properties

The cloudwatch_config.properties file needs to be placed in the hivemq `config` folder.

The following properties are available:

|===
| Property | Description

| reportInverval
| A value in minutes which sets the reporting interval (defaults to 1 minute)

|===


=== cloudwatch_metrics.properties

The cloudwatch_metrics.properties is a list of metric names which should be reported to CloudWatch.

[IMPORTANT]
If a metric does not exist yet, this plugin will create the specified metric

Example

-[source,bash]
----
com.hivemq.messages.incoming.total.count
com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.total.count

# You can comment out metrics you don't need

#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.total.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.total.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.connack.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.connack.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.connect.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.connect.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.disconnect.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.disconnect.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pingreq.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pingreq.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pingresp.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pingresp.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.puback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.puback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.puback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.puback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubcomp.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubcomp.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubcomp.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubcomp.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.publish.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.publish.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.publish.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.publish.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrec.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrec.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrec.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrec.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrel.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrel.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrel.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrel.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.suback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.suback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.subscribe.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.subscribe.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.unsuback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.unsuback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.unsubscribe.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.unsubscribe.rate
#com.hivemq.sessions.persistent.active
#com.hivemq.networking.connections.mean
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.publish.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.publish.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.total.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.total.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.retained.mean
#com.hivemq.subscriptions.overall.current
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.after-login.success.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.after-login.failed.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.authentication.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.restrictions.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.authorization.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.permissions-disconnect.publish.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.permissions-disconnect.subscribe.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.connect.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.disconnect.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.connack-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.publish-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.publish-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.subscribe.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.unsubscribe.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.puback-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.puback-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubcomp-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.ping.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubrel-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubrec-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubcomp-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubrel-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.suback-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.unsuback-send.time
#com.hivemq.exceptions.total
#com.hivemq.sessions.overall.current
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.read.current
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.write.total
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.write.current
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.read.total
#com.hivemq.networking.connections.current
#com.hivemq.messages.retained.current
----

Commit message:

* added config reader * unified class names * added gitignore * added tests * added description for timeOut * removed FIXME * cleaned and updated pom.xml

README.adoc, after:

= HiveMQ AWS CloudWatch Plugin


== Purpose

This Plugin allows to report HiveMQ metrics to AWS CloudWatch.

It is possible to send every HiveMQ metric to CloudWatch. Every metric which should be reported
must be configured explicitly to reduce the costs, since CloudWatch can be expensive if you
publish too much (unnecessary) data.



[CAUTION]
.AWS Cloudwatch costs
====
AWS Cloudwatch metrics can be *very* expensive. So please make sure you really want to report the specified metrics.
You can find the full AWS pricing https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[here].

At the time of writing the AWS prices are the following:

* `$0.50` per custom metric
* `$0.01` per 1000 _GetMetricStatistics_, _ListMetrics_, or _PutMetricData_ requests

====


== Configuration

There are two configuration files needed for the plugin in order to operate:

. `cloudwatch_config.properties`: This config file is used for general configuration, like the publishing interval
. `cloudwatch_metrics.properties`: This config file specifies all metrics which should be reported to CloudWatch


=== cloudwatch_config.properties

The cloudwatch_config.properties file needs to be placed in the hivemq `config` folder.

The following properties are available:

|===
| Property | Description

| reportInverval
| A value in minutes which sets the reporting interval (defaults to 1 minute)
| connectionTimeout
| The connection timeout in ms. The default is the `com.amazonaws.ClientConfiguration.	DEFAULT_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT`

|===


=== cloudwatch_metrics.properties

The cloudwatch_metrics.properties is a list of metric names which should be reported to CloudWatch.

[IMPORTANT]
If a metric does not exist yet, this plugin will create the specified metric

Example

-[source,bash]
----
com.hivemq.messages.incoming.total.count
com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.total.count

# You can comment out metrics you don't need

#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.total.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.total.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.connack.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.connack.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.connect.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.connect.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.disconnect.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.disconnect.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pingreq.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pingreq.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pingresp.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pingresp.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.puback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.puback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.puback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.puback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubcomp.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubcomp.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubcomp.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubcomp.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.publish.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.publish.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.publish.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.publish.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrec.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrec.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrec.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrec.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrel.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrel.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.pubrel.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.pubrel.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.suback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.suback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.subscribe.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.subscribe.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.unsuback.count
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.unsuback.rate
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.unsubscribe.count
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.unsubscribe.rate
#com.hivemq.sessions.persistent.active
#com.hivemq.networking.connections.mean
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.publish.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.publish.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.incoming.total.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.outgoing.total.bytes
#com.hivemq.messages.retained.mean
#com.hivemq.subscriptions.overall.current
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.after-login.success.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.after-login.failed.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.authentication.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.restrictions.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.authorization.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.permissions-disconnect.publish.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.permissions-disconnect.subscribe.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.connect.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.disconnect.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.connack-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.publish-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.publish-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.subscribe.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.unsubscribe.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.puback-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.puback-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubcomp-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.ping.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubrel-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubrec-received.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubcomp-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.pubrel-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.suback-send.time
#com.hivemq.plugin.callbacks.unsuback-send.time
#com.hivemq.exceptions.total
#com.hivemq.sessions.overall.current
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.read.current
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.write.total
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.write.current
#com.hivemq.networking.bytes.read.total
#com.hivemq.networking.connections.current
#com.hivemq.messages.retained.current
----
